DATA ITEM DESCRIPTION

1. TITLE

SOFTWARE VERSION DESCRIPTION (SVD)

2. IDENTIFICATION NUMBER

DI-IPSC-81443

3. DESCRIPTION/PURPOSE

3.1 The Software Version Description (SVD) identifies and describes a software version consisting of one or more Computer Software Configuration Items (CSCIs). It is used to release, track, and control software versions.

3.2 The term "version" may be applied to the initial release of the software, to a subsequent release of that software, or to one of multiple forms of the software released at approximately the same time (for example, to different sites).

7. APPLICATION/INTERRELATIONSHIP

7.1 This Data Item Description (DID) contains the format and content preparation instructions for the data product generated by specific and discrete task requirements as delineated in the contract.

7.2 This DID is used when the developer is tasked to identify and record the exact version of software to be delivered to a user, support, or other site.

7.3 The Contract Data Requirements List (CDRL) (DD 1423) should specify whether deliverable data are to be delivered on paper or electronic media; are to be in a given electronic form (such as ASCII, CALS, or compatible with a specified word processor or other support software); may be delivered in developer format rather than in the format specified herein; and may reside in a computer-aided software engineering (CASE) or otherautomated tool rather than in the form of a traditional document.

7.4 This DID supersedes DI-MCCR-80013A, and DI-MCCR-80312.

10. PREPARATION INSTRUCTIONS

10.1 General instructions.

a. Automated techniques. Use of automated techniques is encouraged. The term "document" in this DID means a collection of data regardless of its medium.

b. Alternate presentation styles. Diagrams, tables, matrices, and other presentation styles are acceptable substitutes for text when data required by this DID can be made more readable using these styles.

c. Title page or identifier. The document shall include a title page containing, as applicable: document number; volume number; version/revision indicator; security markings or other restrictions on the handling of the document; date; document title; name, abbreviation, and any other identifier for the system, subsystem, or item to which the document applies; contract number; CDRL item number; organization for which the document has been prepared; name and address of the preparing organization; and distribution statement. For data in a database or other alternative form, this information shall be included on external and internal labels or by equivalent identification methods.

d. Table of contents. The document shall contain a table of contents providing the number, title, and page number of each titled paragraph, figure, table, and appendix. For data in a database or other alternative form, this information shall consist of an internal or external table of contents containing pointers to, or instructions for accessing, each paragraph, figure, table, and appendix or their equivalents.

e. Page numbering/labeling. Each page shall contain a unique page number and display the document number, including version, volume, and date, as applicable. For data in a database or other alternative form, files, screens, or other entities shall be assigned names or numbers in such a way that desired data can be indexed and accessed.

f. Response to tailoring instructions. If a paragraph is tailored out of this DID, the resulting document shall contain the corresponding paragraph number and title, followed by "This paragraph has been tailored out." For data in a database or other alternative form, this representation need occur only in the table of contents or equivalent.

g. Multiple paragraphs and subparagraphs. Any section, paragraph, or subparagraph in this DID may be written as multiple paragraphs or subparagraphs to enhance readability.

h. Standard data descriptions. If a data description required by this DID has been published in a standard data element dictionary specified in the contract, reference to an entry in that dictionary is preferred over including the description itself.

i. Substitution of existing documents. Commercial or other existing documents may be substituted for all or part of the document if they contain the required data.

10.2 Content requirements. Content requirements begin on the following page. The numbers shown designate the paragraph numbers to be used in the document. Each such number is understood to have the prefix "10.2" within this DID. For example, the paragraph numbered 1.1 is understood to be paragraph 10.2.1.1 within this DID.


1. Scope. This section shall be divided into the following paragraphs.

1.1 Identification. This paragraph shall contain a full identification of the system and the software to which this document applies, including, as applicable, identification number(s), title(s), abbreviation(s), version number(s), and release number(s).

1.2 System overview. This paragraph shall briefly state the purpose of the system and the software to which this document applies. It shall describe the general nature of the system and software; summarize the history of system development, operation, and maintenance; identify the project sponsor, acquirer, user, developer, and support agencies; identify current and planned operating sites; and list other relevant documents.

1.3 Document overview. This paragraph shall summarize the purpose and contents of this manual and shall describe any security or privacy considerations associated with its use.

2. Referenced documents. This section shall list the number, title, revision, and date of all documents referenced in this manual. This section shall also identify the source for all documents not available through normal Government stocking activities.

3. Version description. This section shall be divided into the following paragraphs.

3.1 Inventory of materials released. This paragraph shall list by identifying numbers, titles, abbreviations, dates, version numbers, and release numbers, as applicable, all physical media (for example, listings, tapes, disks) and associated documentation that make up the software version being released. It shall include applicable security and privacy considerations for these items, safeguards for handling them, such as concerns for static and magnetic fields, and instructions and restrictions regarding duplication and license provisions.

3.2 Inventory of software contents. This paragraph shall list by identifying numbers, titles, abbreviations, dates, version numbers, and release numbers, as applicable, all computer files that make up the software version being released. Any applicable security and privacy considerations shall be included.

3.3 Changes installed. This paragraph shall contain a list of all changes incorporated into the software version since the previous version. If change classes have been used, such as the Class I/Class II changes in MIL-STD-973, the changes shall be separated into these classes. This paragraph shall identify, as applicable, the problem reports, change proposals, and change notices associated with each change and the effects, if any, of each change on system operation and on interfaces with other hardware and software. This paragraph does not apply to the initial software version.

3.4 Adaptation data. This paragraph shall identify or reference all unique-to-site data contained in the software version. For software versions after the first, this paragraph shall describe changes made to the adaptation data.

3.5 Related documents. This paragraph shall list by identifying numbers, titles, abbreviations, dates, version numbers, and release numbers, as applicable, all documents pertinent to the software version being released but not included in the release.

3.6 Installation instructions. This paragraph shall provide or reference the following information, as applicable:

a. Instructions for installing the software version

b. Identification of other changes that have to be installed for this version to be used, including site-unique adaptation data not included in the software version

c. Security, privacy, or safety precautions relevant to the installation

d. Procedures for determining whether the version has been installed properly

e. A point of contact to be consulted if there are problems or questions with the installation

3.7 Possible problems and known errors. This paragraph shall identify any possible problems or known errors with the software version at the time of release, any steps being taken to resolve the problems or errors, and instructions (either directly or by reference) for recognizing, avoiding, correcting, or otherwise handling each one. The information presented shall be appropriate to the intended recipient of the SVD (for example, a user agency may need advice on avoiding errors, a support agency on correcting them).

4. This section shall contain any general information that aids in understanding this document (e.g., background information, glossary, rationale). This section shall include an alphabetical listing of all acronyms, abbreviations, and their meanings as used in this document and a list of any terms and definitions needed to understand this document.

A. Appendixes.

Appendixes may be used to provide information published separately for convenience in document maintenance (e.g., charts, classified data). As applicable, each appendix shall be referenced in the main body of the document where the data would normally have been provided. Appendixes may be bound as separate documents for ease in handling. Appendixes shall be lettered alphabetically (A, B, etc.).
